Restrict coverage checks to problem block (#30300)
idaholab/moose: modules/doc/content/framework_development/sanity_checking.md

  solve = false
[]
```

> Regarding simulations like additive manufacturing or immersed boundary simulations, users often work with a complete mesh where certain regions (referred to as *inactive domains*) should not be solved.

Reviewer: By default, MOOSE assumes the computational domain to be the entire mesh. However, some simulations set up using subdomain modifiers or lower-dimensional blocks (such as mortar contact) define computational domain of the underlying problem on a subset of the mesh.

In such cases, the common approach is to either:

- Disable kernel coverage checks entirely by setting:

```
[Problem]
  kernel_coverage_check = false
[]
```

> - Restrict the kernel coverage check to specific active blocks by setting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restrict the kernel coverage check to specific blocks by setting:
```

```
[Problem]
  kernel_coverage_check = ONLY_LIST

>   kernel_coverage_block_list = 'active block IDs'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  kernel_coverage_block_list = 'block1 block2 block4'
```

[]
```

> However, when different kernels are associated with different material properties, users must also manually set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, when certain material properties are block restricted to the computational domain, users must also manually set:
```

```
[Problem]
  material_coverage_check = ONLY_LIST
  material_coverage_block_list = 'active block IDs'
[]
```

> to ensure material properties are correctly assigned only to the active regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to skip the material coverage check outside the computational domain.
```

This manual setup is not only repetitive but also error-prone, especially when the same block list needs to be specified in multiple places.

> To simplify this process, MOOSE provides a convenient parameter called `default_block` under the `[Problem]` block. This allows users to specify the active blocks only once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify this process, MOOSE provides a convenient parameter called `default_block` under the `[Problem]` block. This allows users to specify the default computational domain and inform MOOSE to skip coverage checks outside the computational domain.
```

Setting `default_block` will automatically:

- Enable kernel coverage check with `ONLY_LIST` mode and assign the specified blocks to `kernel_coverage_block_list`

- Enable material coverage check with `ONLY_LIST` mode and assign the specified blocks to `material_coverage_block_list`

> This provides a more user-friendly and centralized way to handle simulations with inactive regions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides a more user-friendly and centralized way to handle simulations with a preferred, non-default computational domain.
```

To simplify this process, the `block` parameter can be specified under `[GlobalParams]` so that it applies to all block-restrictable objects. This allows users to specify the default computational domain and inform MOOSE to skip coverage checks outside the computational domain.

Setting `GlobalParams/block` will automatically:

- Enable kernel coverage check with `ONLY_LIST` mode and assign the specified blocks to `kernel_coverage_block_list`
- Enable material coverage check with `ONLY_LIST` mode and assign the specified blocks to `material_coverage_block_list`

This provides a more user-friendly and centralized way to handle simulations with a preferred, non-default computational domain.

Example Usage for  `GlobalParams/block`:

```
# Perform kernel and material coverage checks only for block 0, 1, and 3,
# while excluding block 2 as an inactive region.

[GlobalParams]
  block = '0 1 3'
[]

[Variables]
  [u]
    # Now this variable will be block-restricted to blocks 0, 1, and 3.
  []
[]

[Kernels]
  [diffusion]
    # And kernels are also block-restricted to blocks 0, 1, and 3.
    type = Diffusion
    variable = u
  []
[]
```

> **Note:** If the user sets either `kernel_coverage_check` or `material_coverage_check` to `ONLY_LIST` or `SKIP_LIST`, and simultaneously provides a `kernel_coverage_block_list` or `material_coverage_block_list`, the presence of a `GlobalParams/block` can introduce ambiguity in determining which blocks are subject to coverage checks. To avoid confusion, the system will throw an error in this case.

Reviewer 2: I dont think it's that ambiguous tbh. GlobalParams/block should get ovverriden by the specific coverage_list parameter.
